---
layout: post
title:  "The biggest challenge I’ve faced when learning to develop"
date:   2017-10-19 17:26:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---
The biggest challenge I’ve faced learning to develop would have to be learning to read, write and understand JavaScript code. I’ve had experience with building sites before but It was very basic HTML/ CSS. I’ve had enough practice to understand HTML and CSS at the beginning of the Bloc program but when it came to understanding and using JavaScript, it was like looking at alien language. It was really hard to read and understand what was going on at first and it caused me to fall behind on the program. I failed my first assessment and had to wait till I felt comfortable with reading the language. It became frustrating, I knew it was simple formulas I was looking at but I couldn’t read the code. I started watching youtube videos and slowly started to make progress. I also reached out to my then mentor and asked for challenges to help me improve. It was helpful and prepared me for my second time taking the assessment. I ended up passing the assessment but I knew it was only going get more challenging so I picked up some books and started watching more videos of formulas and functions. Also, found code academy site and worked through the JavaScript portion of the program. I still struggle with JavaScript but now I’ve become a little familiar with basic code and writing and I keep practicing to develop that muscle memory. It’s pretty the most difficult part the process so far and I’ve talked to few people including my now mentor and it is the one thing that most people struggle with. I just gotta keep going :)
